
Our exhibition is placed in a large dark ambient space and is open to the public. The installation consists of two parts, an outer circle of five curved screens with different radii at the same centre, and an inner circle of circular exhibition areas assembled from the use of old timber, with a large cavity between the two areas. Visitors are guided between the two circles by the light path of roof spotlights. Each of the five transparent screens displays one of the five scenarios we created, and the visitor watches and controls the advancement of the dialogue through the holes left by the timber assemblage in the inner circle, and chats with the AI character through voice input.
This exhibition environment is set up with the following intentions:
1. In the two circles of the installation, the outer circle suggests the land, while the inner circle suggests the boat on which the boat-dwellers live. The form of the circles emphasises the drowning of the boat, suggesting the dilemma of the life of Tanka in ancient times. At the same time, the circles take into account the viewing angle of the exhibition content. 2.
2. The outer shell is a transparent screen, while the side facing the audience outside the circle is affixed with a car solar film. The difference in brightness between the two sides of the film, i.e. the dark environment outside the exhibition installation and the luminous transparent screen, makes the difference in light intensity between the two sides of the film, presenting a visual difference in which people outside the circle can see the inside of the circle, but people inside the circle can't see the outside of the circle. This makes the people inside the installation who are experiencing the Tanka culture not see the audience outside, but the audience outside can see the people inside the experience. This can improve the display effect of the transparent screen, and at the same time imply the loneliness of boat-dwelling Tanka people drifting on the river, and the alienation of not being able to see the shore. It also highlights the unilateral superiority of the people on the shore over the boat-dwelling Tanka people on the river.
3. The inner circle is made of old timber, which is crowded and narrow to imitate the space of the wooden boat in which the Tanka live. Like the outer circle, it is divided into five parts, each facing a transparent screen corresponding to the scene. In the inner circle, the splicing of timber is used to create a hole through which visitors can look at the content displayed on the transparent screen on the opposite side. The height of the holes varies, and the space in the inner circle is narrow, so visitors need to look at the exhibition through half crouching, squatting or lying down positions. In this way, we abstractly simulate the living environment of Tanka, highlighting the hardship and difficulty of the life of Tanka.
4. There is a large distance between the two circles, this physical distance is to imply the class difference and status gap between the Tanka and the shore. But at the same time, the five screens in the outer circle have different distances from the inner circle due to the different contents of the display, so as to emphasise the proximity of certain life scenes of Tanka and people on the land, and to imply that Tanka and people on the land are originally from the same source and inseparable from each other. For example, in the wedding scene, the transparent screen of the wedding scene is the farthest away from the shore because the Tanka are discriminated against from intermarrying with the land; but in the selling scene, the screen is the closest to the shore because the fish of the Tanka are often sold on the shore.
